# Project 0 - Python, Setup, & Autograder Tutorial - CS 370: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence, Spring 2022
    
**Due: Fri 4 Feb 11:59 pm**

## Introduction

<p>The projects for this class assume you use Python 3.6.</p>

<p>Project 0 will cover the following:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Instructions on how to set up the right Python version,</li>
  <li>Workflow examples,</li>
  <li>A mini-Python tutorial,</li>
  <li>Project grading: Every project’s release includes its autograder for you to run yourself.</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Files to Edit and Submit:</strong> You will fill in portions of <code class="highlighter-rouge">addition.py</code>, <code class="highlighter-rouge">buyLotsOfFruit.py</code>, and <code class="highlighter-rouge">shopSmart.py</code> in <a href="/~cs188/sp22/assets/files/tutorial.zip">tutorial.zip</a> during the assignment. You should submit the token generated by the autograder to Gradescope. Please <em>do not</em> change the other files in this distribution or submit any of the files.</p>

<p><strong>Evaluation:</strong> Your code will be autograded for technical correctness. Please <em>do not</em> change the names of any provided functions or classes within the code, or you will wreak havoc on the autograder. However, the correctness of your implementation – not the autograder’s judgements – will be the final judge of your score. If necessary, we will review and grade assignments individually to ensure that you receive due credit for your work.</p>

<p><strong>Academic Dishonesty:</strong> We will be checking your code against other submissions in the class for logical redundancy. If you copy someone else’s code and submit it with minor changes, we will know. These cheat detectors are quite hard to fool, so please don’t try. We trust you all to submit your own work only; <em>please</em> don’t let us down. If you do, we will pursue the strongest consequences available to us.</p>

<p><strong>Getting Help:</strong> You are not alone! If you find yourself stuck on something, contact the course staff for help. Office hours, section, and the discussion forum are there for your support; please use them. If you can’t make our office hours, let us know and we will schedule more. We want these projects to be rewarding and instructional, not frustrating and demoralizing. But, we don’t know when or how to help unless you ask.</p>

<p><strong>Discussion:</strong> Please be careful not to post spoilers.</p>

<hr />

<h2 id="python-installation">Python Installation</h2>

<p>Many of you will not have Python 3.6 already installed on your computers. <a href="https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/">Conda</a> is an easy way to manage many different environments, each with its own Python versions and dependencies. This allows us to avoid conflicts between our preferred Python version and that of other classes. We’ll walk through how to set up and use a conda environment.</p>

<p>On Windows, to execute these commands, you need to be in an Anaconda prompt.</p>

<p>Prerequisite: <a href="https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/">Anaconda</a>. Many of you will have it installed from classes such as EE 16A; if you don’t, install it through the link.</p>

<h3 id="creating-a-conda-environment">Creating a Conda Environment</h3>

<p>The command for creating a conda environment with Python 3.6 is:</p>

<div class="language-shell highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code>conda create <span class="nt">--name</span> &lt;env-name&gt; <span class="nv">python</span><span class="o">=</span>3.6
</code></pre></div></div>
<p>For us, we decide to name our environment <code class="highlighter-rouge">cs188</code>, so we run the following command, and press <code class="highlighter-rouge">y</code> to confirm installing any missing packages.</p>

<div class="language-shell highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code><span class="o">[</span>cs188-ta@nova ~/python_basics]<span class="nv">$ </span>conda create <span class="nt">--name</span> cs188 <span class="nv">python</span><span class="o">=</span>3.6
</code></pre></div></div>

<h3 id="entering-the-environment">Entering the Environment</h3>

<p>To enter the conda environment that we just created, do the following. Note that the Python version within the environment is 3.6, just what we want. Note: if you have an old Anaconda installation, you will need to use source instead of conda for the below, or for Windows, not type conda at all.</p>

<div class="language-shell highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code><span class="o">[</span>cs188-ta@nova ~/python_basics]<span class="nv">$ </span><span class="nb">conda </span>activate cs188
<span class="o">(</span>cs188<span class="o">)</span> <span class="o">[</span>cs188-ta@nova ~/python_basics]<span class="nv">$ </span>python <span class="nt">-V</span>
Python 3.6.6 :: Anaconda, Inc.
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Note: the tag <code class="highlighter-rouge">(&lt;env-name&gt;)</code> shows you the name of the conda environment that is active. In our case, we have <code class="highlighter-rouge">(cs188)</code>, as what we’d expect.</p>

<h3 id="leaving-the-environment">Leaving the Environment</h3>

<p>Leaving the environment is just as easy.</p>

<div class="language-shell highlighter-rouge"><div class="highlight"><pre class="highlight"><code><span class="o">(</span>cs188<span class="o">)</span> <span class="o">[</span>cs188-ta@nova ~/python_basics]<span class="nv">$ </span><span class="nb">conda </span>deactivate
<span class="o">[</span>cs188-ta@nova ~/python_basics]<span class="nv">$ </span>python <span class="nt">-V</span>
Python 3.9.10 :: Anaconda custom <span class="o">(</span>x86_64<span class="o">)</span>
</code></pre></div></div>

<p>Our python version has now returned to whatever the system default is!</p>

<h3 id="using-the-lab-machines">Using the Lab Machines</h3>

<p>At the moment, students do not have the right permissions to download Python 3.6 or Conda on the lab machines. For P0, Python 3.5 (which is already installed) will suffice.</p>

<hr />

<h2 id="workflow-examples">Workflow/ Setup Examples</h2>

<p>You are not expected to use a particular code editor or anything, but here are some suggestions on convenient workflows (you can skim both for half a minute and choose the one that looks better to you):</p>

<ul>
  <li><a href="/~cs188/sp22/project0/idetips">GUI and IDE</a>, with VS Code shortcuts. You are highly encouraged to read the Using an IDE section if using an IDE to learn convenient features.</li>
  <li><a href="/~cs188/sp22/project0/terminaltips">In terminal</a>, using Unix commans and Emacs (this is fine to do on Windows too). Useful to be able to edit code on any machine without setup, and remote connecting setups such as using the instructional machines.</li>
</ul>
