Project 2: Multi-Agent Search {#project-2-multi-agent-search .mt-0 .center}
=============================

**Due: Friday 4 Mar 2020 by 11:59pm**

------------------------------------------------------------------------

![Pacman
maze](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs188/fa21/assets/images/pacman_multi_agent.png){.center-image
.mb-3 .img-fluid}

Pacman, now with ghosts.

Minimax, Expectimax,

Evaluation

Introduction
------------

In this project, you will design agents for the classic version of
Pacman, including ghosts. Along the way, you will implement both minimax
and expectimax search and try your hand at evaluation function design.

The code base has not changed much from the previous project, but please
start with a fresh installation, rather than intermingling files from
project 1.

As in project 1, this project includes an autograder for you to grade
your answers on your machine. This can be run on all questions with the
command:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py
```
:::
:::

*Note:* If your `python`{.highlighter-rouge} refers to Python 2.7, you
may need to invoke `python3 autograder.py`{.highlighter-rouge} (and
similarly for all subsequent Python invocations) or create a conda
environment as described in [Project
0](/~cs188/fa21/project0/#python-installation).

It can be run for one particular question, such as q2, by:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q2
```
:::
:::

It can be run for one particular test by commands of the form:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -t test_cases/q2/0-small-tree
```
:::
:::

By default, the autograder displays graphics with the
`-t`{.highlighter-rouge} option, but doesn't with the
`-q`{.highlighter-rouge} option. You can force graphics by using the
`--graphics`{.highlighter-rouge} flag, or force no graphics by using the
`--no-graphics`{.highlighter-rouge} flag.

See the autograder tutorial in Project 0 for more information about
using the autograder.

[]{.underline}

The code for this project contains the following files, available as a
[zip archive][].

**Files you\'ll edit:**
:::
:::
:::

`multiAgents.py`

Where all of your multi-agent search agents will reside.

**Files you might want to look at:**

`pacman.py`

The main file that runs Pacman games. This file also describes a Pacman
GameState type, which you will use extensively in this project.

`game.py`

The logic behind how the Pacman world works. This file describes several
supporting types like AgentState, Agent, Direction, and Grid.

`util.py`

Useful data structures for implementing search algorithms. You don\'t
need to use these for this project, but may find other functions defined
here to be useful.

**Supporting files you can ignore:**

`graphicsDisplay.py`

Graphics for Pacman

`graphicsUtils.py`

Support for Pacman graphics

`textDisplay.py`

ASCII graphics for Pacman

`ghostAgents.py`

Agents to control ghosts

`keyboardAgents.py`

Keyboard interfaces to control Pacman

`layout.py`

Code for reading layout files and storing their contents

`autograder.py`

Project autograder

`testParser.py`

Parses autograder test and solution files

`testClasses.py`

General autograding test classes

`test_cases/`

Directory containing the test cases for each question

`multiagentTestClasses.py`

Project 2 specific autograding test classes

**Files to Edit and Submit:** You will fill in portions of
`multiAgents.py`{.highlighter-rouge} during the assignment. Once you
have completed the assignment, you will submit a token generated by
`submission_autograder.py`{.highlighter-rouge}. Please *do not* change
the other files in this distribution or submit any of our original files
other than this file.

**Evaluation:** Your code will be autograded for technical correctness.
Please *do not* change the names of any provided functions or classes
within the code, or you will wreak havoc on the autograder. However, the
correctness of your implementation -- not the autograder's judgements --
will be the final judge of your score. If necessary, we will review and
grade assignments individually to ensure that you receive due credit for
your work.

**Academic Dishonesty:** We will be checking your code against other
submissions in the class for logical redundancy. If you copy someone
else's code and submit it with minor changes, we will know. These cheat
detectors are quite hard to fool, so please don't try. We trust you all
to submit your own work only; *please* don't let us down. If you do, we
will pursue the strongest consequences available to us.

**Getting Help:** You are not alone! If you find yourself stuck on
something, contact the course staff for help. Office hours, section, and
the discussion forum are there for your support; please use them. If you
can't make our office hours, let us know and we will schedule more. We
want these projects to be rewarding and instructional, not frustrating
and demoralizing. But, we don't know when or how to help unless you ask.

**Discussion:** Please be careful not to post spoilers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to Multi-Agent Pacman
-----------------------------

First, play a game of classic Pacman by running the following command:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py
```
:::
:::

and using the arrow keys to move. Now, run the provided
`ReflexAgent`{.highlighter-rouge} in
`multiAgents.py`{.highlighter-rouge}

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py -p ReflexAgent
```
:::
:::

Note that it plays quite poorly even on simple layouts:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py -p ReflexAgent -l testClassic
```
:::
:::

Inspect its code (in `multiAgents.py`{.highlighter-rouge}) and make sure
you understand what it's doing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question 1 (4 points): Reflex Agent
-----------------------------------

Improve the `ReflexAgent`{.highlighter-rouge} in
`multiAgents.py`{.highlighter-rouge}to play respectably. The provided
reflex agent code provides some helpful examples of methods that query
the `GameState`{.highlighter-rouge} for information. A capable reflex
agent will have to consider both food locations and ghost locations to
perform well. Your agent should easily and reliably clear the
`testClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} layout:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py -p ReflexAgent -l testClassic
```
:::
:::

Try out your reflex agent on the default
`mediumClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} layout with one ghost or two (and
animation off to speed up the display):

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py --frameTime 0 -p ReflexAgent -k 1
```
:::
:::

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py --frameTime 0 -p ReflexAgent -k 2
```
:::
:::

How does your agent fare? It will likely often die with 2 ghosts on the
default board, unless your evaluation function is quite good.

*Note:* Remember that `newFood`{.highlighter-rouge} has the function
`asList()`{.highlighter-rouge}

*Note:* As features, try the reciprocal of important values (such as
distance to food) rather than just the values themselves.

*Note:* The evaluation function you're writing is evaluating
state-action pairs; in later parts of the project, you'll be evaluating
states.

*Note:* You may find it useful to view the internal contents of various
objects for debugging. You can do this by printing the objects' string
representations. For example, you can print
`newGhostStates`{.highlighter-rouge} with
`print(newGhostStates)`{.highlighter-rouge}.

*Options:* Default ghosts are random; you can also play for fun with
slightly smarter directional ghosts using
`-g DirectionalGhost`{.highlighter-rouge}. If the randomness is
preventing you from telling whether your agent is improving, you can use
`-f`{.highlighter-rouge} to run with a fixed random seed (same random
choices every game). You can also play multiple games in a row with
`-n`{.highlighter-rouge}. Turn off graphics with
`-q`{.highlighter-rouge} to run lots of games quickly.

*Grading:* We will run your agent on the
`openClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} layout 10 times. You will receive 0
points if your agent times out, or never wins. You will receive 1 point
if your agent wins at least 5 times, or 2 points if your agent wins all
10 games. You will receive an addition 1 point if your agent's average
score is greater than 500, or 2 points if it is greater than 1000. You
can try your agent out under these conditions with

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q1
```
:::
:::

To run it without graphics, use:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q1 --no-graphics
```
:::
:::

Don't spend too much time on this question, though, as the meat of the
project lies ahead.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question 2 (5 points): Minimax
------------------------------

Now you will write an adversarial search agent in the provided
`MinimaxAgent`{.highlighter-rouge} class stub in
`multiAgents.py`{.highlighter-rouge}. Your minimax agent should work
with any number of ghosts, so you'll have to write an algorithm that is
slightly more general than what you've previously seen in lecture. In
particular, your minimax tree will have multiple min layers (one for
each ghost) for every max layer.

Your code should also expand the game tree to an arbitrary depth. Score
the leaves of your minimax tree with the supplied
`self.evaluationFunction`{.highlighter-rouge}, which defaults to
`scoreEvaluationFunction`{.highlighter-rouge}.
`MinimaxAgent`{.highlighter-rouge} extends
`MultiAgentSearchAgent`{.highlighter-rouge}, which gives access to
`self.depth`{.highlighter-rouge} and
`self.evaluationFunction`{.highlighter-rouge}. Make sure your minimax
code makes reference to these two variables where appropriate as these
variables are populated in response to command line options.

*Important:* A single search ply is considered to be one Pacman move and
all the ghosts' responses, so depth 2 search will involve Pacman and
each ghost moving two times.

*Grading:* We will be checking your code to determine whether it
explores the correct number of game states. This is the only reliable
way to detect some very subtle bugs in implementations of minimax. As a
result, the autograder will be very picky about how many times you call
`GameState.generateSuccessor`{.highlighter-rouge}. If you call it any
more or less than necessary, the autograder will complain. To test and
debug your code, run

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q2
```
:::
:::

This will show what your algorithm does on a number of small trees, as
well as a pacman game. To run it without graphics, use:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q2 --no-graphics
```
:::
:::

#### ***Hints and Observations***

-   Hint: Implement the algorithm recursively using helper function(s).
-   The correct implementation of minimax will lead to Pacman losing the
    game in some tests. This is not a problem: as it is correct
    behaviour, it will pass the tests.
-   The evaluation function for the Pacman test in this part is already
    written (`self.evaluationFunction`{.highlighter-rouge}). You
    shouldn't change this function, but recognize that now we're
    evaluating *states* rather than actions, as we were for the reflex
    agent. Look-ahead agents evaluate future states whereas reflex
    agents evaluate actions from the current state.
-   The minimax values of the initial state in the
    `minimaxClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} layout are 9, 8, 7, -492 for
    depths 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively. Note that your minimax agent will
    often win (665/1000 games for us) despite the dire prediction of
    depth 4 minimax.

    ::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
    ::: {.highlight}
    ``` {.highlight}
    python pacman.py -p MinimaxAgent -l minimaxClassic -a depth=4
    ```
    :::
    :::

-   Pacman is always agent 0, and the agents move in order of increasing
    agent index.
-   All states in minimax should be `GameStates`{.highlighter-rouge},
    either passed in to `getAction`{.highlighter-rouge} or generated via
    `GameState.generateSuccessor`{.highlighter-rouge}. In this project,
    you will not be abstracting to simplified states.
-   On larger boards such as `openClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} and
    `mediumClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} (the default), you'll find
    Pacman to be good at not dying, but quite bad at winning. He'll
    often thrash around without making progress. He might even thrash
    around right next to a dot without eating it because he doesn't know
    where he'd go after eating that dot. Don't worry if you see this
    behavior, question 5 will clean up all of these issues.
-   When Pacman believes that his death is unavoidable, he will try to
    end the game as soon as possible because of the constant penalty for
    living. Sometimes, this is the wrong thing to do with random ghosts,
    but minimax agents always assume the worst:

    ::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
    ::: {.highlight}
    ``` {.highlight}
    python pacman.py -p MinimaxAgent -l trappedClassic -a depth=3
    ```
    :::
    :::

    Make sure you understand why Pacman rushes the closest ghost in this
    case.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question 3 (5 points): Alpha-Beta Pruning
-----------------------------------------

Make a new agent that uses alpha-beta pruning to more efficiently
explore the minimax tree, in `AlphaBetaAgent`{.highlighter-rouge}.
Again, your algorithm will be slightly more general than the pseudocode
from lecture, so part of the challenge is to extend the alpha-beta
pruning logic appropriately to multiple minimizer agents.

You should see a speed-up (perhaps depth 3 alpha-beta will run as fast
as depth 2 minimax). Ideally, depth 3 on
`smallClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} should run in just a few seconds per
move or faster.

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py -p AlphaBetaAgent -a depth=3 -l smallClassic
```
:::
:::

The `AlphaBetaAgent`{.highlighter-rouge} minimax values should be
identical to the `MinimaxAgent`{.highlighter-rouge} minimax values,
although the actions it selects can vary because of different
tie-breaking behavior. Again, the minimax values of the initial state in
the `minimaxClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} layout are 9, 8, 7 and -492 for
depths 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively.

*Grading:* Because we check your code to determine whether it explores
the correct number of states, it is important that you perform
alpha-beta pruning without reordering children. In other words,
successor states should always be processed in the order returned by
`GameState.getLegalActions`{.highlighter-rouge}. Again, do not call
`GameState.generateSuccessor`{.highlighter-rouge} more than necessary.

***You must not prune on equality in order to match the set of states
explored by our autograder.*** (Indeed, alternatively, but incompatible
with our autograder, would be to also allow for pruning on equality and
invoke alpha-beta once on each child of the root node, but this will not
match the autograder.)

The pseudo-code below represents the algorithm you should implement for
this question.

![Alpha-Beta
Implementation](/~cs188/fa21/assets/images/alpha_beta_impl.png){.center-image
.mb-3 .img-fluid}

To test and debug your code, run

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q3
```
:::
:::

This will show what your algorithm does on a number of small trees, as
well as a pacman game. To run it without graphics, use:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q3 --no-graphics
```
:::
:::

The correct implementation of alpha-beta pruning will lead to Pacman
losing some of the tests. This is not a problem: as it is correct
behaviour, it will pass the tests.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question 4 (5 points): Expectimax
---------------------------------

Minimax and alpha-beta are great, but they both assume that you are
playing against an adversary who makes optimal decisions. As anyone who
has ever won tic-tac-toe can tell you, this is not always the case. In
this question you will implement the
`ExpectimaxAgent`{.highlighter-rouge}, which is useful for modeling
probabilistic behavior of agents who may make suboptimal choices.

As with the search and constraint satisfaction problems covered so far
in this class, the beauty of these algorithms is their general
applicability. To expedite your own development, we've supplied some
test cases based on generic trees. You can debug your implementation on
small the game trees using the command:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q4
```
:::
:::

Debugging on these small and manageable test cases is recommended and
will help you to find bugs quickly.

Once your algorithm is working on small trees, you can observe its
success in Pacman. Random ghosts are of course not optimal minimax
agents, and so modeling them with minimax search may not be appropriate.
`ExpectimaxAgent`{.highlighter-rouge}, will no longer take the min over
all ghost actions, but the expectation according to your agent's model
of how the ghosts act. To simplify your code, assume you will only be
running against an adversary which chooses amongst their
`getLegalActions`{.highlighter-rouge} uniformly at random.

To see how the `ExpectimaxAgent`{.highlighter-rouge} behaves in Pacman,
run:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py -p ExpectimaxAgent -l minimaxClassic -a depth=3
```
:::
:::

You should now observe a more cavalier approach in close quarters with
ghosts. In particular, if Pacman perceives that he could be trapped but
might escape to grab a few more pieces of food, he'll at least try.
Investigate the results of these two scenarios:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py -p AlphaBetaAgent -l trappedClassic -a depth=3 -q -n 10
```
:::
:::

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python pacman.py -p ExpectimaxAgent -l trappedClassic -a depth=3 -q -n 10
```
:::
:::

You should find that your `ExpectimaxAgent`{.highlighter-rouge} wins
about half the time, while your `AlphaBetaAgent`{.highlighter-rouge}
always loses. Make sure you understand why the behavior here differs
from the minimax case.

The correct implementation of expectimax will lead to Pacman losing some
of the tests. This is not a problem: as it is correct behaviour, it will
pass the tests.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Question 5 (6 points): Evaluation Function
------------------------------------------

Write a better evaluation function for pacman in the provided function
`betterEvaluationFunction`{.highlighter-rouge}. The evaluation function
should evaluate states, rather than actions like your reflex agent
evaluation function did. With depth 2 search, your evaluation function
should clear the `smallClassic`{.highlighter-rouge} layout with one
random ghost more than half the time and still run at a reasonable rate
(to get full credit, Pacman should be averaging around 1000 points when
he's winning).

*Grading:* the autograder will run your agent on the smallClassic layout
10 times. We will assign points to your evaluation function in the
following way:

-   If you win at least once without timing out the autograder, you
    receive 1 points. Any agent not satisfying these criteria will
    receive 0 points.
-   +1 for winning at least 5 times, +2 for winning all 10 times
-   +1 for an average score of at least 500, +2 for an average score of
    at least 1000 (including scores on lost games)
-   +1 if your games take on average less than 30 seconds on the
    autograder machine, when run with
    `--no-graphics`{.highlighter-rouge}. The autograder is run on EC2,
    so this machine will have a fair amount of resources, but your
    personal computer could be far less performant (netbooks) or far
    more performant (gaming rigs).
-   The additional points for average score and computation time will
    only be awarded if you win at least 5 times.
-   Please do not copy any files from Project 1, as it will not pass the
    autograder on Gradescope.

You can try your agent out under these conditions with

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q5
```
:::
:::

To run it without graphics, use:

::: {.language-shell .highlighter-rouge}
::: {.highlight}
``` {.highlight}
python autograder.py -q q5 --no-graphics
```
:::
:::

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Submission
----------

In order to submit your project, run
`python submission_autograder.py`{.highlighter-rouge} and submit the
generated token file `multiagent.token`{.highlighter-rouge} to the
`Project 2`{.highlighter-rouge} assignment on Gradescope.


[zip archive]: https://github.com/williamdemeo/cs370-spring2022/blob/master/projects/Project2/multiagent.zip
[multiagent.zip]: https://github.com/williamdemeo/cs370-spring2022/blob/master/projects/Project2/multiagent.zip
